(Opening song, "over and over")
[WIENE] No... no...
(GRAN charge)
(FIA brace) (shout)
(BOTH wince)
(MAN B snatched up)
(struggle) (pain)
(fighting)
(LANIER notice) (dodge)
(GRAN swing) (swing)
(LANIER pain)
(MAN C pain)
(FIA notice) (pain)
(CLIFF pain) (pain) (stabbed)
(FAU roaring) (grunt)
(ALL blasted back)
(MAN B annoyed)
We're outmatched, Dix...
It's way too strong!
Yeah?
Gimme a break,
it's just one damn monster.
(DIX spit)
(FAU snarl)
(roar)
(DIX happy)
(FAU wind up) (swing)
(DIX smirk)
[DIX] I got screwed
over the last time
I caught somethin'
as big as you...
I won't make the
same mistake twice.
(DIX smirk)
(FAU retch)
[LANIER] Fau!
[WIENE] Fau...?
[WIENE] Please... no...
[WIENE] No more...
(WIENE distressed)
(LANIER notice)
Wiene! Hide!
Eyes on me, bitch!
(LANIER scream)
[WIENE] (gasp) Fau!
[WIENE] No...
[WIENE] (crying) No! No!
[DIX] Aww...
(WIENE scared)
Just settle down little lady.
You're gonna get your
turn soon enough.
(WIENE afraid)
(DIX chuckle)
(BELL somber)
(LILI upset)
(BOTH notice)
(HESTIA sigh) (notice)
[BELL] I'm full.
[HESTIA] Where are you going?
I'm going to the Dungeon
for a little while.
[BELL] Don't worry.
I'll be back soon.
(HESTIA notice)
(door open and close)
(sigh)
(WIENE waking up)
[GRAN] Stupid spider...
[GRAN] You're wastin'
everybody's time.
(LANIER pain)
[DIX] Okay listen up...
Haul these things back to base
and don't go dragging
your asses, either.
(LANIER pain)
[DIX] Their buddies might be
lurkin' around somewhere.
(LANIER notice)
(strained breathing)
[DIX] What do you think
you're doin'?!
(LANIER shock)
A strand of silk...
[DIX] Tryin' to leave
some breadcrumbs, eh?
(DIX chuckle)
[DIX] Not gonna happen, sweetie.
[DIX] Ah, anyways,
she's a lost cause.
[DIX] But don't let her loose,
she'll burn down the whole
town...
[DIX] Make sure you dispose of
it before you leave.
(LANIER gasp)
[MAN D] Heh...
Quick question, Dix.
[DIX] What is it?
[MAN D] Since we're gonna
be killing it anyway...
[MAN D] Y'mind if we...
have a little fun?
(BOTH creepy chuckle)
[DIX] Gah, suit yourselves.
(GRAN hmph)
[MAN D] That's right...
[MAN D] Hell yeah...
I asked so me first!
[MAN E] Th-then
it's my turn next...
[MAN C] Piss off, I'm next!
(LANIER anger)
[MAN D] Be a good girl, 'kay?
[MAN C] You know...
She's hot for a bug.
(LANIER spew)
(MAN D gasp)
(BOTH scream)
[MAN E] (yelp) It burns!
[MAN C] My skin's melting!
(GRAN laughing)
[GRAN] That's what
you morons get!
(LANIER struggling)
(gasp) You freak...
You're gonna die!
(LANIER gasp)
(MAN C giggle)
(LANIER laughing)
(LANIER wind up) (attack)
(MAN C pain) (pain)
(LANIER heavy breathing)
[LANIER] I will not roll over...
and allow you to violate my
body... you bastards!
[LANIER] This flesh of mine...
even in death...
[LANIER] It belongs to me!
(LANIER pain)
(ALL shocked)
Live on... Glos... (pained)
(LANIER pained breath)
[GRAN] Damn... That thing
totally offed itself, didn't it?
(DIX laugh)
[DIX] She's got the right idea.
I don't like takin' orders
from anyone either...
Just me, myself and I!
[DIX] Monster or not,
that's the type
of attitude I can get behind.
[DIX] Let's move, gentlemen.
(GLOS worried)
(disbelief)
(angry)
(GLOS scream)
(BELL sigh)
(KOBOLD growling)
(BELL notice)
(BELL prepared)
(KOBOLD growling) (leap)
(fighting)
(BELL gasp)
[LIDO] Don't shy away from
killin' monsters.
[LIDO] Don't let your concern
for us cloud your judgement.
(KOBOLD A attack) (attack)
(KOBOLD A growling) (charge)
(BELL brace) (gasp)
(BELL panting)
[BELL, internal] I can
still fight monsters...
But it's... not the same
as it used to be...
(street chatter)
[BELL, internal] Xenos like
Wiene and Lido are different
from regular monsters.
[BELL, internal] Monsters kill
people. That's a fact.
[BELL, internal]
But is that enough to
justify killing them...?
[BELL, internal] Or to earn
a living...? Or to be like our
role models...?
(BELL notice)
[BELL] Miss Ais...?
[URANUS] Is something
wrong, Fels?
[FELS] No. Despite
ongoing surveillance,
there is no indication that the
group of hunters from the Ikelos
Familia have exited Babel.
[FELS] At present... they either
remain in the Dungeon...
or our worst fear has
come to fruition:...
There is another entrance to the
Dungeon aside from the tower.
What is the status...
of the Xenos?
[FELS] As planned,
they are in the process
of relocating to another
hidden village.
I have yet to receive
word of their arriv--...
[URANUS] What's happened now?
[FELS] The signal from Lido's
crystal has disappeared...
[LIDO] What's the
big idea, Glos?!
[LIDO] Why'd you
smash the crystal?!
[LIDO] How are we supposed to
get in touch with Fels?!
[GLOS] Seriously? Listening
to Fels is pointless!
[GLOS] You know exactly
what must be done!
[LIDO] Take it easy...
I saw everything...
[GLOS] I could hear
the bloodshed...
Those humans' evil deeds...
[GLOS] The deaths of
our beloved friends...!
[GLOS] We do not need Fels' help
any longer! No one can stand in
our way!
[GLOS] We shall end this
with our own hands!
[GLOS] Revenge! We shall
have our revenge for
Lanier and the others...
[GLOS] We shall rescue
our comrades!
(LIDO shock)
[GLOS] And those savages are
going to pay the price!
[LIDO] W-wait...!
[GLOS] I'll destroy them,
along with anyone who
dares to interfere!
[GLOS] I'll slaughter every
last one of them!
[LIDO] And let all of our hard
work go to waste?! Is that what
you want?!
[LIDO] To forsake our fallen
comrades' dreams?!
[LIDO] Not all adventurers...
Not all surface-dwellers are
evil!
[LIDO] Some of 'em are
like Bell and his friends.
[GLOS] How long are you going to
turn a blind eye?!
[LIDO] So- (taken aback)
[GLOS] That little brat is no
different. He will abandon us
eventually.
[GLOS] Mankind and monsters
cannot coexist!
[GLOS] Come back
to reality, Lido!
(LIDO gasp)
[GLOS] We are going
to rescue our comrades!
[GLOS] We shall honor
Lanier's dying wish!
[XENOS] Yeah!
[REI] We can't stop them.
Lido... It's too late.
(LIDO distressed)
[LIDO] I'm sorry, Fels...
Bellcchi...
[LIDO] Rei, Rhett...
(REI solemn)
[LIDO] Stick with me.
We're goin' after Glos' crew.
[REI] Right.
[RHETT] Anything you say, sir!
[LIDO] Alulu, go meet
up with our comrade.
He should be arriving at the
rendezvous point any minute now.
(ALULU understood - "kyu!")
(LIDO somber) (resolute)
[LIDO] Let's go!
(ADVENTURERS chatting)
(HERMES ELF notice)
(HERMES CATMAN affirmative)
[HERMES CATMAN] Falgar...
See that down there?
[HERMES CATMAN] Ikelos's grunts!
[MALE ADVENTURER A] Bors!
[MALE ADVENTURER A]
The monsters are acting strange.
[MALE ADVENTURER A] You hear
that don'tcha?
(BORS grunt)
[BORS] What is that...?!
(street chatter)
[BELL] U-um so uh... I'm sorry
for uh... Taking your time...
[AIS] No no it's fine.
(BELL conflicted) (sigh)
[BELL] So um tell me Miss Ais...
Let's say...
there's a monster that had
its very own reason to live...
[BELL] And it had feelings
exactly like ours...
What would you do?
(AIS ponder)
Doesn't matter... What if that
monster were to hurt somebody...
(AIS shakes head)
[AIS] If that monster were
to make someone cry...
[AIS] I would kill it without
any hesitation.
(BELL shaky breath)
[BELL] I...
(bells ringing)
(BOTH surprised)
[EINA, intercom] Emergency
alert! Emergency alert!
[EINA] All Familias operating
within city limits,
please follow the official
instructions with which
you are provided.
[EINA] The Guild will be
issuing a mission shortly!
[EINA] Armed monsters have
destroyed Rivira, located
on the 18th Floor.
[EINA] We are asking adventurers
for their immediate cooperation
in eradicating the monsters
responsi-
[EINA] Huh? But-
[EINA] Yes, sir! The Guild
retracts its previous statement.
All citizens, including
adventurers, are prohibited
from entering the Dungeon.
(STREET hushed
talking /confusion)
[EINA] Familias, please stand by
at your respective homes.
[AIS] A party of monsters...?
[EINA] I repeat: All citizens,
including adventurers,
[EINA] are prohibited from
entering the Dungeon.
[BELL] What happened...?
[BELL] Mr. Lido... and Wiene...
D'you hear? The
hell's going on?!
[WELF] They said the Xenos
attacked the town?!
[LILI] We don't know...
There's not enough information.
In the unlikely
event it's true...
what would happen to the Xenos?
And what would happen to poor
Lady Wiene?
Hmm.. Dangerous monsters
who've already wrought
havoc on Rivira...
It's gonna be impossible for
Orario to just let them be.
[LILI] They'll be forced to take
some sort of decisive action...
[ROYMAN] Lord Uranus!
[ROYMAN] Why would you
give such an order?!
[URANUS] Calm yourself, Royman.
[ROYMAN] But...
this is pressing!
We can't let the monsters
continue their onslaught...
Our righteous Guild shall
lose its authority!
If those creatures were
truly intent on invading
the surface...
they would have already
broken down Babel's doors.
[URANUS] More importantly,
my Divine Prayer has yet
to be disrupted.
[ROYMAN] O-of course...
[URANUS] Involving more Familias
would cause unnecessary
chaos and confusion.
[URANUS] The Ganesha Familia
will lead the subjugation
forces.
[ROYMAN] (point taken)
I understand then.
[URANUS] Further instructions
will follow shortly.
[URANUS] Now, go.
[ROYMAN] Yessir! (scurry off)
(URANUS pondering)
[FELS] This is a problem.
[URANUS] Very true.
[FELS] Ideally, we should have
had a full grasp on the
situation
and devised a plan before
sounding the alarm.
Yes. Now, Fels...
Ready your familiar.
[FELS] Certainly, but....
[URANUS] The participants
of this mission shall
be selected from our
most trusted allies.
[URANUS] You are
to accompany them.
In addition... I would like
you to involve Bell Cranel.
(FELS surprised)
[FELS] Uranus... Are you sure?
[URANUS] This is the boy's
moment of truth.
A final test for the only
adventurer to ever join
hands with the Xenos.
[URANUS] Is he merely a child
swept up in the moment?
Is he a puppet being
manipulated by the gods?
[URANUS] Or perhaps,
it's something else.
(street angry chatter)
(BELL rushing) (sliding by)
[BELL] Miss Eina!
[EINA] Oh! Hi there, Bell!
[BELL] Please tell me!
What do we know about the
monsters who attacked?!
[EINA] According to the
adventurers who managed to
escape...
they were equipped with
weapons and armor.
[EINA] It sounds as though
there were several different
species involved,
lead by a ferocious gargoyle.
(BELL gasp)
[EINA] From what I know...
the Guild will be sending out
the Ganesha Familia
as the lead subjugation unit.
[EINA] We may be issuing further
orders to more Familias.
So I encourage you
to stand by at home.
[MISHA] Hold on a second, Eina!
[EINA] Hmm?
What?! Master Uranus...
wants to speak with Bell?!
(BELL confused)
[BETE] That's complete bullshit!
Just standby?!
[BETE] Why the hell would
anybody leave this up to
Ganesha?!
Plus issuing an abrupt
change to the mission...
[RIVERIA] It's truly
a bizarre situation.
[FINN] Well, at any rate guys...
I'm sure this won't be
the last we hear of it...
Know what I mean.
It's just a hunch.
[LOKI] Look...
I'm not exactly thrilled about
being kept outta
the loop, y'know.
[LOKI] ...but I gotta
agree with Finn, here.
It made far too many waves...
It's not stopping any time
soon...
How amusing that even Uranus
has something to hide...
..and he wants to keep us
as far away as possible.
(IKELOS laughing)
Screwed up big time Dix...
didn'tcha?
(IKELOS chuckle)
[IKELOS] Oh, what a glorious
turn of events! (amused)
[HESTIA] No way! Bell
hasn't come back? yet!
[LILI] He hasn't. He's
still down in the Dungeon.
[HESTIA] But it's been
placed on lock-down!
[HESTIA] They forced a mandatory
evacuation on us in the tower.
Oh Bell... Where are you?
(MIKOTO panting)
(HESTIA notice)
[MIKOTO] Lady Hestia! A message
from the Guild.
(HESTIA concerned)
(LILI anticipation)
[HARUHIME] "In case of
emergency, we shall call in..."
[HARUHIME] "...reserve units?"
[LILI] "Maintain
the status quo."
[LILI] So basically, we're
supposed to stay put?
"They're recruiting Bell
for the subjugation unit
on the 18th Floor"?!
[ALL] They're what?!
What on earth are you
thinking... Uranus...?
[FELS] We don't have much
time. Pay close attention, Bell
Cranel.
[FELS] Our assumptions are
based on testimonies from the
adventurers who have evacuated.
[FELS] However, it seems the
Xenos did not exit the 18th
Floor following their assault on
Rivira.
(BELL surprised)
[FELS] I firmly believe that
the reason for their outburst,
whatever it may be, currently
resides on said floor.
[FELS] Nevertheless,
I must verify this claim
with my own eyes.
[BELL] But... how will you
manage to get down there?
[FELS] We have arranged to
dispatch you to the Dungeon.
You shall infiltrate and move
alongside the subjugation unit.
(BELL gasp)
[FELS] Are you willing to
help us... Bell Cranel?
Of course I'll help out!
I insist on it!
[BELL] I have to go...
I have to find Wiene...!
(HERMES sigh)
Dragging poor Bell into this...
[HERMES] You've really
done it now, Uranus.
[ASFI] I'm surprised.
You're usually eager to put him
through one of your "tests."
I was sure you wouldn't
pass up the chance.
[HERMES] Well, there's always
an exception to the rule...
One wrong move and it's
curtains for the kid.
How's Falgar's party doing?
[ASFI] They managed to
survive, albeit narrowly.
(HERMES sigh)
[HERMES] Head down
to the 18th Floor,
but travel separately
from Ganesha's team.
[HERMES] Get all the information
you can and report back.
[ASFI] Okay what about you?
[HERMES] I need to take
care of something.
[HERMES] I'm concerned
for Bell's safety...
Take Aisha along.
[RYU] Mr. Cranel is joining
the subjugation unit?
[AISHA] Yup. Apparently the
rampaging monsters never left
the 18th Floor
after laying waste to Rivira.
They're holed up there now.
Why are you telling
me about all this?
[AISHA] I'm too nosy
for my own good.
[AISHA] I only say this 'cause
you seem to have a soft spot for
Bell Cranel...
That boy is about to wander
down a dangerous path.
[RYU] And how exactly do
you know so much? (react)
[AISHA] Because I converted
to the Hermes Familia...
after Ishtar bit the dust.
[RYU] Of all the gods
out there why him?
[AISHA] (chuckle)
I have my reasons.
[AISHA] Let's call it a mutually
beneficial agreement.
I'm assuming... you must be
headed to the 18th Floor?
(AISHA amused)
[RYU] I see...
(AISHA question)
[RYU] In other words,
it's safe to conclude...
it's no ordinary mission.
[AISHA] Good guess.
According to my source,
the Ikelos Familia
is involved somehow.
Can you be certain about that?
That would be the rumor....
They're said to be in league
with an illicit group called
"Evilus."
[RYU] Evilus...?
[RYU] Understood.
I shall be accompanying you.
(DIX smirk)
[GRAN] Dix!
The entire city's up in
arms and going crazy...
Something about armed
monsters in Rivira!
You said armed monsters?
It's almost too good to be true!
So our prey has decided to make
it easy on us an' bring the
fight right to our doorstep.
Meanwhile our god is
nowhere to be found...
[DIX] Well then...
[DIX] ...how to proceed?
[SHAKTI] Now listen.
[SHAKTI] Our job is to tame
these monsters.
[SHAKTI] Do not kill them.
They are to be captured alive.
[ILTA] You sure
about this, Sister?
We abide by the will of
our master, Ganesha...
We trust in his judgement and
follow his command.
[SHAKTI] Isn't that right, Ilta?
(ILTA agree)
[SHAKTI] Now let's get moving!
(GANESHA FAMILIA power yell)
(Ending Song, "Evergreen")
[HESTIA] Next time: "Knossos."